Updated README and adding an example AGENTS.md file (#94)
Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli: README.md

# Flagsmith CLI

Manage Flagsmith from your terminal and your pipeline.

```bash
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh
flagsmith init

> [![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli)](https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/releases) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)](./LICENSE)

Reviewer: The \`\`\`bash fence opened above is never closed, so the badges line and the whole rest of the README get swallowed into the code block. Needs a closing fence before the badges.

---

## Stop a release that depends on a flag that's off

```bash
flagsmith evaluate checkout-v2 --test
```

Exits non-zero when a flag your release needs isn't enabled. Drop it into any pipeline to block a bad deploy before it ships:

```yaml
- name: Verify release flags
  run: flagsmith evaluate checkout-v2 --test
  env:
    FLAGSMITH_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.FLAGSMITH_API_KEY }}
```

We use this on ourselves. A 78-line GitHub Actions workflow in the Flagsmith repo is now one command.

## Bind a repo once, and the whole team is in the right place

```bash
flagsmith init
```

Writes a `flagsmith.json` you commit with your code, recording which project and environment this repo maps to. New teammates can clone, log in, and they're pointed at the right project. Prevents complex setup docs and changes landing in the wrong environment.

> If you work across several projects, this is even more uesful, both for you and for LLMs interacting on your behalf.

Reviewer: typo: "uesful" -> "useful"

# Flagsmith CLI

Manage Flagsmith from your terminal and your pipeline.

> 

Reviewer: The CLI docs over at docs.flagsmith.com reference #install. we should keep the Install heading, or change that reference in https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith/pull/8045.

If you work across several projects, this is even more uesful, both for you and for LLMs interacting on your behalf.

## Readable for you, parseable for machines

```bash
flagsmith flag list                                    # a table
flagsmith flag list --json                             # JSON
flagsmith flag list --json --jq '.[] | select(.enabled) | .name'
```

jq is compiled into the binary so your agent doesn't have to pipe the output anywhere.

---

## Install

**macOS and Linux**
```bash
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh
```

Installs to `~/.local/bin`. The installer takes options:

```bash
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh -s -- --version v2.0.0 --bin-dir /usr/local/bin --no-modify-path
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh -s -- --help
```

`FLAGSMITH_CLI_VERSION`, `FLAGSMITH_INSTALL_DIR` and `FLAGSMITH_NO_MODIFY_PATH` do the same if exported first. To pin the installer itself, fetch it at a commit you trust:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/<sha>/install.sh | sh
```

**Windows**
```powershell
irm https://get.flagsmith.com/install.ps1 | iex

> ```

Reviewer: homebrew instruction got swallowed in a merge conflict. we'll also have an npm instruction soon

Author: I'm not seeing the homebrew instructions anywhere, can you share?

**Docker**
```bash
docker run --rm -e FLAGSMITH_API_KEY ghcr.io/flagsmith/flagsmith-cli flag list
```

**Go**
```bash
go install github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/v2@latest
```
Note this installs the binary as `flagsmith-cli`, not `flagsmith`.

Or download an archive from [Releases](https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/releases).

## Authentication

```bash
flagsmith login          # opens your browser, stores credentials in your OS keyring
flagsmith auth status    # who am I, and against which instance
flagsmith auth token     # print the current token, for scripts
```

Without a browser, use static credentials:

- `FLAGSMITH_API_KEY` — Admin API, for managing flags, features, projects and so on
- `FLAGSMITH_ENVIRONMENT_KEY` — SDK-side, for evaluation and environment documents

Containers have no keyring, so `flagsmith login` can't persist there — pass one of the above instead.

Self-hosted? Point at your own instance with `--api-url` or `FLAGSMITH_API_URL`:

```bash
flagsmith --api-url https://flagsmith.internal/api/v1 flag list

> ```

Reviewer: we need to add info on host-scoped static credentials here

Author: you mean to add them to the bash example?

Reviewer: Not necessarily, because `flagsmith login` works with `--api-url` transparently. Only static credentials, provided via environment variables, need a different treatment when a self-hosted api-url is used.

This is how we're documenting this over at docs.flagsmith.com: https://docs-git-feat-trust-relationships-docs-flagsmith.vercel.app/integrating-with-flagsmith/CLI#static-credentials

## Using it with a coding agent

> The CLI is a smaller context cost than a full tool catalogue: your agent gets one binary with self-documenting help, and pays for it only when it runs something.

Reviewer: > The CLI is a smaller context cost than a full tool catalogue

context?

## Which Flagsmith CLI is this?

There are two, and they do different jobs.

| | `flagsmith-cli` (npm) | `flagsmith` (this one) |
|---|---|---|
| **What it's for** | Fetching flag state at build time and writing it to a file | Managing your Flagsmith account, and gating pipelines |
| **Reads / writes** | Read-only | Read and write |
| **Installed with** | npm | curl, PowerShell, Docker, `go install` |
| **Needs** | Node | Nothing |

**Already using the npm package?** Keep using it — it still works and we'll give notice before that changes. When you want to consolidate, this CLI covers the same ground:

```bash
flagsmith evaluate --js              # the state a frontend SDK hydrates from
flagsmith environment document       # the local-evaluation environment document
```

This tool is version 2 because it shares a repository and a name with the older one. It is not an upgrade of it.

---

> ## Command reference

Reviewer: The CLI docs over at docs.flagsmith.com reference `#commands`, let's change this heading back:

```suggestion
## Commands
```

# Flagsmith CLI

> Manage Flagsmith from your terminal and your pipeline. One binary, no runtime.

Reviewer: llmism

```suggestion
Manage Flagsmith from your terminal and your pipeline.
```

```bash
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh
flagsmith login
flagsmith init

> ```

Reviewer: init includes login

```suggestion
```bash
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh
flagsmith init
```
```

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli)](https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/releases) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)](./LICENSE)

> ---

Reviewer: I'd prefer a heading here instead of a divider.

> ## Stop a release that depends on a flag that's off

Reviewer: If this section gains an H2 heading, these become H3 and don't read as noisy as they do now.

Ideally, they shouldn't be headings at all. Landing page layouts don't really work well in documentation.

```bash
flagsmith evaluate checkout-v2 --test
```

Exits non-zero when a flag your release needs isn't enabled. Drop it into any pipeline to block a bad deploy before it ships:

```yaml
- name: Verify release flags
  run: flagsmith evaluate checkout-v2 --test
  env:
    FLAGSMITH_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.FLAGSMITH_API_KEY }}
```

> We use this on ourselves. A 78-line GitHub Actions workflow in the Flagsmith repo is now one command.

Reviewer: This gives an impression that we use `eval --test`, which we do not.

The copy exhibits typical LLM context-deafness (who cares how many lines our workflow had?!), and is factually incorrect.

## Bind a repo once, and the whole team is in the right place

```bash
flagsmith init
```

Writes a `flagsmith.json` you commit with your code, recording which project and environment this repo maps to. New teammates can clone, log in, and they're pointed at the right project. Prevents complex setup docs and changes landing in the wrong environment.

If you work across several projects, this is even more uesful, both for you and for LLMs interacting on your behalf.

## Readable for you, parseable for machines

```bash
flagsmith flag list                                    # a table
flagsmith flag list --json                             # JSON
flagsmith flag list --json --jq '.[] | select(.enabled) | .name'
```

> A spec-compliant jq is compiled into the binary with nothing extra to install in your shell or in a CI image. Output switches to JSON automatically when it isn't attached to a terminal.

Reviewer: > Output switches to JSON automatically when it isn't attached to a terminal.

This is not true, and I'm not sure it's a particularly good idea either.

```suggestion
jq is compiled into the binary so your agent doesn't have to pipe the output anywhere.
```

---

## Install

**macOS and Linux**
```bash
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh
```

Installs to `~/.local/bin`. The installer takes options:

```bash
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh -s -- --version v2.0.0 --bin-dir /usr/local/bin --no-modify-path
curl -sSL https://get.flagsmith.com | sh -s -- --help
```

`FLAGSMITH_CLI_VERSION`, `FLAGSMITH_INSTALL_DIR` and `FLAGSMITH_NO_MODIFY_PATH` do the same if exported first. To pin the installer itself, fetch it at a commit you trust:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/<sha>/install.sh | sh
```

**Windows**
```powershell

> irm https://get.flagsmith.com/install.ps1 | iex

Reviewer: hallucination
 
```suggestion
irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/main/install.ps1 | iex
```

```

**Go**
```bash
go install github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/v2@latest
```
Note this installs the binary as `flagsmith-cli`, not `flagsmith`.

Or download an archive from [Releases](https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/releases).

## Authentication

```bash
flagsmith login          # opens your browser, stores credentials in your OS keyring
flagsmith auth status    # who am I, and against which instance
flagsmith auth token     # print the current token, for scripts
```

Without a browser, use static credentials:

- `FLAGSMITH_API_KEY` — Admin API, for managing flags, features, projects and so on
- `FLAGSMITH_ENVIRONMENT_KEY` — SDK-side, for evaluation and environment documents

Containers have no keyring, so `flagsmith login` can't persist there — pass one of the above instead.

Self-hosted? Point at your own instance with `--api-url` or `FLAGSMITH_API_URL`:

```bash
flagsmith --api-url https://flagsmith.internal/api/v1 flag list
```

## Using it with a coding agent

The CLI is a smaller context cost than a full tool catalogue: your agent gets one binary with self-documenting help, and pays for it only when it runs something.

> Drop [`AGENTS.md`](./examples/AGENTS.md) into your repo and your agent will know how to use it — which commands are safe to run unprompted, and which need a human.

Reviewer: This implies that the agent will not know how to use it without AGENTS.md, which is not true. Frankly, I'm almost offended since this CLI was designed with agents in mind from day 0.

> ---

Reviewer: Can we drop these unnecessary page breaks?

## Which Flagsmith CLI is this?

There are two, and they do different jobs.

| | `flagsmith-cli` (npm) | `flagsmith` (this one) |
|---|---|---|
| **What it's for** | Fetching flag state at build time and writing it to a file | Managing your Flagsmith account, and gating pipelines |
| **Reads / writes** | Read-only | Read and write |
| **Installed with** | npm | curl, PowerShell, Docker, `go install` |
| **Needs** | Node | Nothing |

**Already using the npm package?** Keep using it — it still works and we'll give notice before that changes. When you want to consolidate, this CLI covers the same ground:

```bash
flagsmith evaluate --js              # the state a frontend SDK hydrates from
flagsmith environment document       # the local-evaluation environment document
```

> This tool is version 2 because it shares a repository and a name with the older one. It is not an upgrade of it.

Reviewer: This really should be a simple deprecation notice / migration guide. Instead, it confuses people, and their agents: 

> It is not an upgrade of it.

It very much is. It's a replacement!

- `flagsmith environment list|get|create|update|delete|clone` (alias `env`) — by name or API key
- `flagsmith environment key list|create|delete <environment>` — server-side SDK keys
- `flagsmith environment document [environment]` — the local-evaluation environment document
- `flagsmith project list|get|create|update|delete` — `create` takes `--organisation`
- `flagsmith organisation list|get|create|update|delete` (alias `org`)

### Evaluation

- `flagsmith evaluate [feature]` (alias `eval`) — the flags an SDK would resolve for the current environment
  - `--identity <id>` and `--trait key=value` — evaluate as a specific identity
  - `--test` — exit non-zero when a named flag is disabled
  - `--js` — write the state a frontend SDK hydrates from
  - `--persist` — write the result to disk

### Anything else

- `flagsmith api <path>` — call any Flagsmith endpoint with your credentials applied, e.g. `flagsmith api /projects/`

</details>

---

## Docs, and getting help

- Documentation: [docs.flagsmith.com](https://docs.flagsmith.com/integrating-with-flagsmith/CLI)
- Bugs and requests: [open an issue](https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith-cli/issues)

> - Include `flagsmith --version` and how you installed it

Reviewer: Can we add an issue template instead?

Author: not sure what that exactly means, can you show me an example?

Reviewer: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository

For reference, we use templates in the Core repo: https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith/tree/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE

Author: I still don't understand what you mean by using an issue template here - you mean to add one to this repo?

Reviewer: Yes, I mean add one to this repo, and ask for `flagsmith --version` in the template.
